MRALD is a web-based, automated data delivery system that works with an existing
database. It was created for situations where the need is an efficient, flexible,
pre-built data delivery system with a minimum of effort. MRALD gives any user most
of the power of SQL, even if they lack database experience, by using a combination
of pre-built forms, an integrated form builder, and an advanced query system. It is
easy enough for anyone to use, yet it enables the power user to not only do what
they do best, but to share that knowledge throughout the organization

This release contains an installation document, a WAR file for new deployments, a ZIP file of the complete source
code, and a zip file with the javadoc apis.

Requires:
    A database with a reasonably complete JDBC driver
    Java 5.0
    Tomcat 5.5 (any Servlet 2.4/JSP 2.0 or later compliant Servlet engine should work)


Known issues
    *   SQL Server does not use standard function names for standard deviation and
        variance.  Those functions will not work on SQL Server without modifications
        to the formbuilding xsl files.
    *   SQL Server does not allow a DISTINCT query on text, ntext, or image data types.
        The same is true for Oracle and CLOB fields.  By default, the simple and advance
        forms do a "select distinct".  This can be changed in the xsl files.
    *   The to_date function, used in many of our date field interactions, doesn't work with
        SQL Server.
    *   JDBC specification doesn't have a type for SQL Server's 'money' data type, so
        it becomes a problem when trying to filter on it.  Retrieval is fine.  Problem occurs
        when trying to do an update as well.
    *   The XML output does not escape characters.   The resulting file is fine, but some
        renderers will have problems if these escape characters are in the data.  Also the
        query does not get shown on XML output.
    *   Using : and ~ in filter values causes un-predictable results.  ~ will cause an "OR"
        between the values separated by the ~.  We call that a feature.  : will cause the loss
        of the value all together.  This is not a feature.
    *   Occassionally on the first startup, the demo database will not be properly read.  Re-
        starting Tomcat will resolve this issue.  Again - it only happens when the platform is
        first deployed.

If these are severe issues for you, please contact us.  At the moment they are not high on the list
of things to fix.

Any questions, comments, concerns?
mrald-dev-list@lists.mitre.org
jchoyt@mitre.org
ghamilton@mitre.org
